Update WND and Kerberos (#1209)
owncloud/docs-server: modules/admin_manual/pages/enterprise/authentication/kerberos.adoc

----
--

* Install handy command-line tools for Kerberos: +

> Note that `krb5-user` is not an actual requirement but it will provide handy command-line tools for Kerberos like to manipulate keytab files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `krb5-user` is not an actual requirement, but it will provide handy command-line tools for Kerberos, such as the ability manipulate keytab files.
```

Author: Changes in `config_apps_sample_php_parameters` need to be done in core and then transported with a config-to-docs run to the admin docs. I will take care.

> Note that `krb5-user` is not an actual requirement, but it will provide handy command-line tools for Kerberos, such as the ability to manipulate keytab files.

Reviewer 2: It is an actual requirement, we need the `kvno` command which is part of that package (on Ubuntu). As usual the package might be named differently on other Linux flavours.

```suggestion
Note that `krb5-user` is an actual requirement, the Kerberos implementation in the WND app requires the `kvno` command which is contained in that package.
```

.. Pre-windows logon name: `<user-name>`
.. _Select_ option: `Password never expires`
.. _Do not select_ this option: `User must change password at next logon`
.. In menu:Delegation[]
+
--
* _Select_ `Trust this user for delegation to specified services only`
* _Select_ `Use any authentication protocol`

> * _Add_ the service type respectively server(s) for delegated credentials like: +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Add_ the service type and server(s) for delegated credentials like: +
```

See the https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2012-R2-and-2012/cc731241(v=ws.11)[Microsoft setspn,window=_blank] documentation for details and more parameters. 
--

> . Map the account +

Reviewer: Is this line an accidental left-over copy?

Author: No, it is just the main list item to see what the step is, as the others in the list. But the details are always in the next line if the line is too long. I fiddled a bit around to see what renders best and decided for this approach for ease of readbility. Just see the rendered version on staging.

Note that the parameter https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/ktpass[crypto,window=_blank] is according the Microsoft documentation recommended to be set.
--

> . Move the generated keytab file `<user-name>.keytab` to the Linux server hosting the ownCloud instance to location `<keytab-file-location>`. Note that the file must be accessible by the web server.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add a note that this file should not be place in the Apache root dir so an attacker could download it if the Apache redirect rules are wrong. To make things clear: If the keytab file gets into the wrong hand the attacker can impersonate himself as any user for which delegation is allowed.

Author: There is a block below that the keytab file on the ownCloud server must be properly protected. We can sharpen it there.

https://docs.tibco.com/pub/amx-bpm/4.3.0/doc/html/bpmhelp/GUID-6E7B3AD0-D18A-490E-ADED-2D48647CD9C7.html[Configure an SPN Account for an Active Directory Domain Controller]
////

==== Domain on Linux

> The following section is only necessary if the domain runs via Samba. In this case the neccesary libraries have been installed which also contain the command line tool https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/samba-tool.8.html[samba-tool,window=_blank].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following section is only necessary if the domain runs via Samba. In this case the necessary libraries have been installed which also contain the command line tool https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/samba-tool.8.html[samba-tool,window=_blank].
```

> . Create a user for the use with Kerberos:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a user for use with Kerberos:
```

----
--

> . Configure SPN for the use with Kerberos and export the keytab file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure SPN for use with Kerberos and export the keytab file:
```

----
--

. Move the generated keytab file `<user-name>.keytab` to the Linux server hosting the ownCloud instance to location `<keytab-file-location>`. Note that the file must be accessible by the webserver.

== Configure ownCloud Server

> Provide the following steps on the server running ownCloud:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps on the server running ownCloud:
```

. Configure `/etc/krb5.conf` for use with Kerberos. +
Note that only required/recommended or non-default settings are used:
+
--
[source,plaintext]
----
[libdefaults]
    default_realm        = <REALM>
    default_tkt_enctypes = aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96
    default_tgs_enctypes = aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96
    permitted_enctypes   = aes256-cts-hmac-sha1-96
    forwardable          = true

>     proxiable            = true

Reviewer 2: This can be removed IMHO. @jvillafanez ?

Author: I have read tons of documents pointingto the need for enctypes for security reasons, I would like to know in detail why this now shoud not be needed anymore??

Author: I have removed the proxiable parameter in the meanwhile. We can readd it at any time if really needed.

Note that if you issue this command during regular operation, all sessions for users using ownCloud with Kerberos will end and need to re-login. 
--

. Create a new ownCloud config file `/path-to-owncloud/config/kerberos.config.php` with the following contents or add only the comment and key to an existing `config.php` file:
+
--
[source,php]
----
<?php $CONFIG = [

    /**
     * Path to the keytab file to use, defaults to '/etc/krb5.keytab'
     */
    'kerberos.keytab' => '<keytab-file-location>/<user-name>.keytab',
];
----
--

> An new file will be read xref:configuration/server/config_sample_php_parameters.adoc#introduction[additionally] to existing config files. See the xref:configuration/server/config_apps_sample_php_parameters.adoc[Apps Config.php Parameters] for more Kerberos configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new file will be read xref:configuration/server/config_sample_php_parameters.adoc#introduction[additionally] to existing config files. See the xref:configuration/server/config_apps_sample_php_parameters.adoc[Apps Config.php Parameters] for more Kerberos configuration options.
```

image::enterprise/authentication/kerberos/kerberos-login-screenshot.png[Alternative Windows Domain Login, width=300]

> Compared to a standard login using a user name and password, the user clicks on the btn:[Windows Domain Login] button. With this button, ownCloud requests a new ticket on behalf of the Windows user logged in, which is technically a constrained delegation. With this new ticket, all other ownCloud apps that provide Kerberos authentications can then use this ticket like the xref:enterprise/external_storage/windows-network-drive_configuration.adoc[Windows Network Drive (WND)] app .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to a standard login using a user name and password, the user clicks on the btn:[Windows Domain Login] button. With this button, ownCloud requests a new ticket on behalf of the Windows user logged in, which is technically a constrained delegation. With this new ticket, all other ownCloud apps that provide Kerberos authentications can then use this ticket, like the xref:enterprise/external_storage/windows-network-drive_configuration.adoc[Windows Network Drive (WND)] app .
```

> Compared to a standard login using a user name and password, the user clicks on the btn:[Windows Domain Login] button. With this button, ownCloud requests a new ticket on behalf of the Windows user logged in, which is technically a constrained delegation. With this new ticket, all other ownCloud apps that provide Kerberos authentications can then use this ticket, like the xref:enterprise/external_storage/windows-network-drive_configuration.adoc[Windows Network Drive (WND)] app.

Reviewer 2: This is not correct. The delegation doesn't happen for the login with the Kerberos App. Delegation is only done in the WND App (and also not in `all other ownCloud apps`. The two parts are completely disjunct. So either we remove the WND- related sentence here completely to avoid confusion or make clear that this is a two-step process.

```suggestion
Compared to a standard login using a user name and password, the user clicks on the btn:[Windows Domain Login] button. With this button, ownCloud requests a new ticket on behalf of the Windows user logged in, which is technically a constrained delegation. With this button, the browser takes the Kerberos ticket from the client and uses it for the ownCloud login process. If the WND App is installed as well the ownCloud service user might later on request additional Kerberos ticket on behalf of the Windows user logged in, which is technically a constrained delegation.
```
